https://patents.google.com/patent/US10636209B1/en
APPENDIX C
CGL (Compressed Geo-data Library) is container file format inspired by the BGL file format from FSX. CGL files fulfill these needs: it is a general purpose container file format; it stores data bound to a certain location on the earth; it stores data in multiple levels of detail; the CGL files themselves are named and organized on disk in a consistent way—the location for which information is needed can be easily transformed to the file location and name; within a CGL file data can be searched by location; the data structure and the contents of the CGL files are represented in compact binary form to save as much space as possible.
A flight simulator or game organizes the game, the rendering of the planet, the loading of data, etc., around a tile system that has the same properties as the tile system used by Bing Maps, OpenStreetMap and Google Maps. The tile system is based on a Mercator projection where the whole world is mapped to a single square. This projection space is then split up into smaller squares. Each increasing LOD (level of detail) level has four times as many tiles as the level before. For a good introduction on the tiling system and quadkeys, information may be found on the Microsoft Web site. Since a game organizes itself around these tiles, it makes sense to store information associated with the planet also in a tile-based addressing scheme.
A prior art flight simulator, FSX, has a similar scheme; however, that scheme is not based on a square Mercator projection, but rather on the rectangular QMID addressing scheme system. It is undesirable to use QMID for all types of data; the main reason for this is that the QMID tiles are not congruent with the Bing tiles. Another problem are the different LOD levels and resolutions at these LOD levels. Our approach uses a container file that is based and organized around the Bing tile system.
This container file has the following properties: addressing scheme based on the Bing tile quadkeys files are quickly found on disk; the contents of a container are organized in Bing tiles; it supports multiple LODs; it is space efficient. We organize offline data in a directory structure that follows LOD 3. This means we have 64 directories on disk, which are identified by their quadtree code (from 000 to 333).
Using an example quadkey of 02123003200201, the directory consists of the first 3 characters, 021. We encapsulate data in CGL files, one per tile in LOD 6. This amounts to 64 files per directory at maximum. So, in our example quadkey of 02123003200201, the LOD 6 part of the name is 021230. Instead of storing the full quadkey of 021230, the file is only named 230, since the quadkey prefix, 021, can be inferred by the directory. The data itself resides in a CGL file at a LOD>=6. There are different CGL files per data category. This means that there are CGL files for vector data, CGL files for building data and so on. The prefix of the name of the CGL file distinguishes the category of the data (e.g., CGLs with prefix “vec” hold vector data). Thus, in a single directory, there might be multiple CGL files for the same tile, with the same quadkey but different prefixes. All in all, this gives us a maximum of 64 directories*64 files=4096 files per file type.
There are special CGL files which are stored on LOD 0 and include tiles for the whole world. Currently there are two of those files, the Landclassification/Region/Population and the Texture Synthesis Mask file. The Land classification stores tiles on LOD 8 within the CGL file. The quadkey is encoded in either 16 or 32 bit. The encoding is defined in a section header. Only the first quadkey is stored normally, all other quadkeys are stored as a difference to the quadkey before. The bit depth (16 or 32 bit) stays the same. The subsection size is also stored as a difference to the subsection size before. If the difference fits in 15 bits then 16 bits are stored (with MSB=0). If it does not fit in 16 bits it is stored as 31 bits with the MSB set to 1. The uncompressed size is 0 in case the data is uncompressed. If the data is compressed (that will be in most cases) the uncompressed size is stored as the difference to the compressed size. If it fits in 15 bits, it will be stored as 16 bits with the MSB=0. If it does not fit in 16 bits it will be stored as 31 bits with the MSB set to 1. To get a better compression ratio the subsection header data is stored in columns. This means that all the quadkeys are stored as a list first, followed by the list of sizes followed by the list of all uncompressed sizes.
To save size, the quadkey of the subsections are stored in “compressed” manner: since all subsections are in the same LOD 8 tile that the CGL file spans, these common leading quadkey bits are omitted. So for example the file \0212\vec0333.cgl will only hold tiles that have 02120333 as start of the quadkey, e.g., 021203331230. So, when encoding this quadkey, we only need to store the suffix of “1230” since 02120333 is give by the file itself. Additional to the quadkey, we store the LOD, which is 12 for this file. However, since all tiles in the file 02120333 should be at LOD 8 or higher, we only need to store it as LOD 8. The LOD is encoded in the first 4 bits, giving 12 or 28 bits for the remaining quadkey.
Also, note that within one section header the quadkey size should be the same (2 or 4 bytes). The third encoding type for 16-bit quadkey assumes all tiles within the subsections to be on the same LOD. Therefore the LOD does not need to be stored (it is stored in the section header). This is being used for building metadata which is stored on LOD 14, the CGL file is on LOD 6, resulting in a relative quadkey of 8 LODS, which can be stored within 16 bits without the LOD. The contents of subsections and the subsection headers array itself can be stored in compressed form. This is indicated by the MSB of the size being one. In that case the remaining size (without the MSB) is the compressed size. This size is then loaded from disk and decompressed in memory. A compression algorithm LZMA is used. These types of data are currently stored in CGL files: vector data; digital elevation data; land classification data population density data; cultural region information; building metadata.